- I didn't read Nieztsche yet. I'm at this moment reading some book that explains his idea. Because as a non-philosophy major student, his text is hard.
- Nieztsche said that, there's two kinds of beauty, Apollonian and Dionysian. The first one can be merely interpreted as order, and the second one can be merely interpreted as chaos and intoxication. Nieztsche emphasize the importance of the later, because his predecessors have been emphasizing an Apollonian faith for too long.
- Nietzsche's counter argument is that, people who trust Apollo, don't actually love the earth. They just like the idea in their mind. Their belief is so profound that they throw away the real thing, and attach any of their affection with the fake, imaginary concept. With the disguise of language, the situation is more severe.
- If any worldview is objective, why philosophers still didn't reach an agreement on how their structure would be like, as in Physics? If something is not convincing enough, Nietzsche must have thought, it should be rejected by Occam's Razor.
- It's clear that, not only God is killed in Nietzsche's Philosophy World. But along with any ideology that is not strongly rooted in the real world: Any event should not be abstract away because they are unique to each other, so we can not just say this is a happy event, or this is a sad event. Even if there's similarity, this doesn't grant us the power to classify them. Or even if you classify, we should still remember they are unique.
- His attack on Platonic worldview is relevant. And he strives to be more subjective. But does that really matter? If the price of being subjective is that you are forced to live in a chaos and sad world with constant agony, why not just protect yourself in a comfort bubble? If Philosophy brings pain, why not stick to religion?
- The problem is bigger and bigger, actually. Now I am attacking, the importance of actually knowing the "real" world. Does that matter, at all? If knowing the real world don't provide us with any utility that can be used to conquer the world. Then, I, humbly, would rather reject the authentic worldview as a whole. I would rather live with something that is fake, but can push us forward. I think this, is one of the reason why many people believe in some non-sense that is called "Religion".
- It's pretty clear that Nietzsche's attack on Platonic worldview is irrelevant, cause it actually work out. And if any other worldview should be existing at all, it can't be without abstraction. That is unacceptable, and I still believe Apollo, even with Nietzsche attacking him.